README.adoc, before:

= RISC-V Specification Template

This repository serves as a template for creating GitHub repositories within the RISC-V organization for the purpose of developing specifications. It aims to facilitate and standardize the process of specification development.

NOTE: If you are viewing this in a specification repository, kindly update the title for this section and provide an introduction relevant to your repository.

== License

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC-BY-4.0). For details, see the link:LICENSE[LICENSE] file.

== Maintainers

The list of maintainers of this specification is maintained in the link:MAINTAINERS.md[MAINTAINERS] file.

== Contributors

The list of contributors to this specification is maintained in the link:src/contributors.adoc[contributors] file.

For guidelines on how to contribute, refer to the link:CONTRIBUTING.md[CONTRIBUTING] file.

== Governance

The governance for this project is defined in the link:GOVERNANCE.md[GOVERNANCE] file.

Community information, including meeting (if held) and mailing lists are detailed in this file.

== Building the Document

=== Directory Structure

The following directories are used to organize the contents of this repo:

* `dependencies/`: software dependencies needed to build the specification
* `docs-resources/`: resources for all specifications sourced from link:.gitmodules[git submodule]
* `src/`: source files for the specification
* `build/`: default directory where the build artifacts are generated

=== Prerequisites

To build the document, you'll need the following tools installed on your system:

* Make
* asciiDoctor-pdf, asciidoctor-bibtex, asciidoctor-diagram, and asciidoctor-mathematical
* Docker

=== Cloning the Repository

```shell
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/riscv/docs-spec-template.git
```

All in one single line:

```shell
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/riscv/docs-spec-template.git && cd docs-spec-template && git submodule update --init --recursive

```

=== Building the Documentation

To start the build process, run:

```shell
cd ./docs-spec-template && make build
```

The link:Makefile[] script will check the availability of Docker on your system:

* If Docker is available, the documentation will be built inside a Docker container using the image riscvintl/riscv-docs-base-container-image:latest. This ensures a consistent build environment across different systems.
* If Docker is not available, the documentation will be built directly on your system using the installed tools.

The documentation is generated from the AsciiDoctor source files in your project. The primary source file is specified by the `HEADER_SOURCE` variable in the Makefile.

The build process utilizes several options, including theming and font settings, and generates a PDF document as output.

=== Cleaning up

To clean up the generated files, run:

```shell
make clean
```

== Enabling pre-commit checks locally

The repository has some basic commit checks set up with https://pre-commit.com/[pre-commit] that will be enforced by the GitHub CI.
To ensure these checks are also run in the local repository while making changes the following can be done:

.Installing pre-commit tool
[source,shell]
----
# Do once on your system
pip3 install pre-commit
----

.Installing pre-commit git hook in repo
[source,shell]
----
# Do once in local repo
pre-commit install
----

Rather than doing the above `pre-commit install` in every repo that uses it, you can do it https://pre-commit.com/#automatically-enabling-pre-commit-on-repositories[once on your system.]

When enabling additional checks https://pre-commit.com/#plugins[by editing .pre-commit-config.yaml], it is recommended running the newly added check on all files in the repository. This can be done with the following command:

.Running all pre-commit hooks on all files
[source,shell]
----
pre-commit run --all-files
----

Commit message:

Initial Version of Qualcomm Extensions
Signed-off-by: Sam Elliott <quic_aelliott@quicinc.com>

README.adoc, after:

= RISC-V ELF psABI - Qualcomm Extensions

This repository contains Qualcomm's non-standard extensions to the https://github.com/riscv-non-isa/riscv-elf-psabi-doc[RISC-V ELF psABI]. These are written to support https://github.com/quic/riscv-unified-db[Qualcomm's Public RISC-V Extensions].

== License

This work is licensed under the BSD 3-Clause Clear License (BSD-3-Clause-Clear) and the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC-BY-4.0). For details, see the link:LICENSE[LICENSE] file.

== Maintainers

The list of maintainers of this specification is maintained in the link:MAINTAINERS.md[MAINTAINERS] file.

== Contributors

The list of contributors to this specification is maintained in the link:src/contributors.adoc[contributors] file.

For guidelines on how to contribute, refer to the link:CONTRIBUTING.md[CONTRIBUTING] file.

== Governance

The governance for this project is defined in the link:GOVERNANCE.md[GOVERNANCE] file.

Community information, including meeting (if held) and mailing lists are detailed in this file.

== Building the Document

=== Directory Structure

The following directories are used to organize the contents of this repo:

* `dependencies/`: software dependencies needed to build the specification
* `docs-resources/`: resources for all specifications sourced from link:.gitmodules[git submodule]
* `src/`: source files for the specification
* `build/`: default directory where the build artifacts are generated

=== Prerequisites

To build the document, you'll need the following tools installed on your system:

* Make
* asciiDoctor-pdf, asciidoctor-bibtex, asciidoctor-diagram, and asciidoctor-mathematical
* Docker

=== Cloning the Repository

```shell
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/quic/riscv-elf-psabi-quic-extensions.git
```

All in one single line:

```shell
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/quic/riscv-elf-psabi-quic-extensions.git && cd riscv-elf-psabi-quic-extensions && git submodule update --init --recursive

```

=== Building the Documentation

To start the build process, run:

```shell
cd ./riscv-elf-psabi-quic-extensions && make build
```

The link:Makefile[] script will check the availability of Docker on your system:

* If Docker is available, the documentation will be built inside a Docker container using the image riscvintl/riscv-docs-base-container-image:latest. This ensures a consistent build environment across different systems.
* If Docker is not available, the documentation will be built directly on your system using the installed tools.

The documentation is generated from the AsciiDoctor source files in your project. The primary source file is specified by the `HEADER_SOURCE` variable in the Makefile.

The build process utilizes several options, including theming and font settings, and generates a PDF document as output.

=== Cleaning up

To clean up the generated files, run:

```shell
make clean
```

== Enabling pre-commit checks locally

The repository has some basic commit checks set up with https://pre-commit.com/[pre-commit] that will be enforced by the GitHub CI.
To ensure these checks are also run in the local repository while making changes the following can be done:

.Installing pre-commit tool
[source,shell]
----
# Do once on your system
pip3 install pre-commit
----

.Installing pre-commit git hook in repo
[source,shell]
----
# Do once in local repo
pre-commit install
----

Rather than doing the above `pre-commit install` in every repo that uses it, you can do it https://pre-commit.com/#automatically-enabling-pre-commit-on-repositories[once on your system.]

When enabling additional checks https://pre-commit.com/#plugins[by editing .pre-commit-config.yaml], it is recommended running the newly added check on all files in the repository. This can be done with the following command:

.Running all pre-commit hooks on all files
[source,shell]
----
pre-commit run --all-files
----
