src/quic-extensions.adoc, before:

// Copyright (c) 2024-2025, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
[[quic-extensions]]
== Qualcomm Extensions

The following section makes additions to the tables in the RISC-V ELF psABI cite:[riscvelfpsabi]. The descriptions below are given only where the Qualcomm Extensions define fields or values reserved in that specification for nonstandard use. Encoding and enumeration spaces reserved for use by standard extensions are denoted as _Standard_ in this specification.

=== ELF File Header

This section extends the "ELF File Header" section in the RISC-V ELF psABI specification.

e_ident:: The Qualcomm Extensions may only be used where the value of `e_ident.EI_CLASS` is `ELFCLASS32`, in addition to the restrictions already present in the RISC-V ELF psABI. This restrictions may be relaxed in future.

e_flags:: This field allocates 8 bits for non-standard extensions. This psABI Extension does not allocate any of these bits.

NOTE: This does not automatically make this psABI Extension compatible with other non-standard psABI Extensions.

=== Relocations

This section extends the "Relocations" section in the RISC-V ELF psABI specification.

Qualcomm uses the `QUALCOMM` symbol name with `R_RISCV_VENDOR` relocations cite:[riscvtoolchainconventions], which must preceed any relocation code below.

All ELF relocation code names defined by this specification have the prefix `R_RISCV_QC_`.

NOTE: This table should be read as an addition to the "Relocation types" table in the RISC-V ELF psABI.

.Additional relocation types
[cols=">3,6,3,6,11"]
[width=100%]
|===
| Enum          | ELF Reloc Type   | Type     | Field / Calculation  | Description

.2+| 0-191   .2+| _Standard_    .2+| _Varies_ | _Varies_          .2+| Defined in the RISC-V ELF psABI
                                             <|
.2+| 192     .2+| `ABS20_U`     .2+| Static   | _U-Type_          .2+| (Signed) 20-bit Absolute address
                                             <| S + A
.2+| 193     .2+| `E_BRANCH`    .2+| Static   | _QC.EB-Type_      .2+| 12-bit PC-relative branch offset (48-bit instruction)
                                             <| S + A - P
.2+| 194     .2+| `E_32`        .2+| Static   | _QC.EAI-Type_     .2+| 32-bit Absolute address
                                             <| S + A
.2+| 195     .2+| `E_CALL_PLT`  .2+| Static   | _QC.EJ-Type_      .2+| 32-bit PC-relative function call (via PLT)
                                             <| S + A - P
.2+| 196-255 .2+| *Reserved*    .2+|          |                   .2+| Reserved for future use in the Qualcomm Extensions.
                                             <|
|===

[NOTE]
--
There are no relocations for the `Xqcilo` loads and stores.
This is because they cannot materialise a 32-bit address on their own, and any code sequence including these instructions that could materialise a 32-bit address would be longer than the equivalent sequence that uses an `lui` and a load or store with a 12-bit immediate.
If we defined 26-bit absolute address relocations, but these would only apply when `rs1` was `zero`, which isn't very helpful.
We describe relaxations for `Xqcilo` loads and stores, below, but these do not require defined relocation types.
--

==== Calculation Symbols

Calculation symbols should be interpreted exactly as they are defined in the RISC-V ELF psABI.

==== Field Symbols

NOTE: This table should be read as an addition to the "Variables used in relocation fields" table in the RISC-V ELF psABI.

.Additional variables used in relocation fields
[%autowidth]
|===
| Field         | Description

| _QC.EAI-Type_ | Specifies the immediate field in a QC.EAI-type instruction
| _QC.EB-Type_  | Specifies the immediate field used for the branch target offset in an QC.EB-type instruction
| _QC.EJ-Type_  | Specifies the immediate field used for the jump target offset in an QC.EJ-type instruction
| _QC.EI-Type_  | Specifies the immediate field in an QC.EI-type instruction
| _QC.ES-Type_  | Specifies the immediate field in an QC.ES-type instruction
|===

The new instruction types starting _QC_ are defined in he `Xqci` specification cite:[xqcispec].

=== Code Sequences

In addition to the code sequences documented in the RISC-V ELF psABI, the following sequences may also be used by a compiler following this extension, when the corresponding architecture extensions have been enabled.

NOTE: Relocations not used in these code sequences are designed to be used from assembly files, rather than by compilers, as some have restrictions on the addresses that can be materialized.

==== Absolute Addresses

[%unbreakable]
--

32-bit absolute addresses in position dependent code can be loaded with a `qc.e.li` instruction (part of `Xqcili`) and the corresponding relocation `R_RISCV_QC_E_32`.

[,asm]
----
    qc.e.li a0, symbol+addend   # R_RISCV_VENDOR QUALCOMM
                                # R_RISCV_QC_E_32 symbol, addend
----
--

NOTE: This sequence is only 6 bytes (as opposed to an `lui`/`addi` pair which is 8 bytes). The size overhead of the pair can be reduced in some circumstances, such as when the `addi` is folded into a load or store instruction or when the `lui` is shared between multiple materialisations, so this is not always beneficial.

[%unbreakable]
--
20-bit absolute addresses in position dependent code can be loaded with a `qc.li` instruction (part of `Xqcili`) and the corresponding relocation `R_RISCV_QC_ABS20_U`. This requires the `%qc.abs20` specifier on the operand.

[,asm]
----
    qc.li a0, %qc.abs20(symbol+addend)  # R_RISCV_VENDOR QUALCOMM
                                        # R_RISCV_QC_ABS20_U symbol, addend
----
--


==== Procedure Calls

[%unbreakable]
--
Unconditional 48-bit call (_QC.EJ-Type_) instructions (in `Xqcilb`) have a `R_RISCV_QC_E_CALL_PLT` relocation that can represent an even signed 32-bit offset (-2GiB to +2GiB-2) from PC.

Just like `R_RISCV_CALL_PLT`, it is up to the linker to decide whether this relocation needs a PLT entry, or can directly use the procedure's address.
Just like `R_RISCV_CALL_PLT`, calling via an instruction that uses this relocation may clobber non-callee-saved registers.

[,asm]
----
    qc.e.jal symbol   # R_RISCV_VENDOR QUALCOMM
                      # R_RISCV_QC_E_CALL_PLT symbol

    qc.e.j symbol   # R_RISCV_VENDOR QUALCOMM
                    # R_RISCV_QC_E_CALL_PLT symbol
----
--

==== PC-Relative Branches

[%unbreakable]
--
Conditional 48-bit branch (_QC.EB-type_) instructions (in `Xqcibi`) have a `R_RISCV_QC_E_BRANCH` relocation that can represent an even signed 13-bit offset (-4096 to +4094) from PC.

[,asm]
----
    qc.e.beqi a0, 0xFF00, symbol+addend   # R_RISCV_VENDOR QUALCOMM
                                          # R_RISCV_QC_E_BRANCH symbol, addend
----
--

[%unbreakable]
--
Conditional branch immediate (B-type) instructions (in `Xqcibi`) use the standard `R_RISCV_BRANCH` relocation, which can represent an even signed 13-bit offset (-4096 to +4094) from PC. These use a standard relocation code, so do not need a `R_RISCV_VENDOR` relocation.

[,asm]
----
    qc.beqi a0, 0xFF, symbol+addend  # R_RISCV_BRANCH symbol, addend
----
--

=== Attributes

The RISC-V ELF psABI defines a method for providing additional information about object files that a linker or runtime loader can use to ensure the ELF files are compatible. Attributes with a tag number above 32768 are reserved for non-standard extensions.

This psABI Extension does not allocate any non-standard attribute tags.

Commit message:

Remove PC-Relative and Absolute Paired Relaxations, Rework
Signed-off-by: Sam Elliott <quic_aelliott@quicinc.com>

src/quic-extensions.adoc, after:

// Copyright (c) 2024-2025, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
[[quic-extensions]]
== Qualcomm Extensions

The following section makes additions to the tables in the RISC-V ELF psABI cite:[riscvelfpsabi]. The descriptions below are given only where the Qualcomm Extensions define fields or values reserved in that specification for nonstandard use. Encoding and enumeration spaces reserved for use by standard extensions are denoted as _Standard_ in this specification.

=== ELF File Header

This section extends the "ELF File Header" section in the RISC-V ELF psABI specification.

e_ident:: The Qualcomm Extensions may only be used where the value of `e_ident.EI_CLASS` is `ELFCLASS32`, in addition to the restrictions already present in the RISC-V ELF psABI. This restrictions may be relaxed in future.

e_flags:: This field allocates 8 bits for non-standard extensions. This psABI Extension does not allocate any of these bits.

NOTE: This does not automatically make this psABI Extension compatible with other non-standard psABI Extensions.

=== Relocations

This section extends the "Relocations" section in the RISC-V ELF psABI specification.

Qualcomm uses the `QUALCOMM` symbol name with `R_RISCV_VENDOR` relocations cite:[riscvtoolchainconventions], which must preceed any relocation code below.

All ELF relocation code names defined by this specification have the prefix `R_RISCV_QC_`.

NOTE: This table should be read as an addition to the "Relocation types" table in the RISC-V ELF psABI.

.Additional relocation types
[cols=">3,6,3,6,11"]
[width=100%]
|===
| Enum          | ELF Reloc Type   | Type     | Field / Calculation  | Description

.2+| 0-191   .2+| _Standard_    .2+| _Varies_ | _Varies_          .2+| Defined in the RISC-V ELF psABI
                                             <|
.2+| 192     .2+| `ABS20_U`     .2+| Static   | _U-Type_          .2+| (Signed) 20-bit Absolute address
                                             <| S + A
.2+| 193     .2+| `E_BRANCH`    .2+| Static   | _QC.EB-Type_      .2+| 12-bit PC-relative branch offset (48-bit instruction)
                                             <| S + A - P
.2+| 194     .2+| `E_32`        .2+| Static   | _QC.EAI-Type_     .2+| 32-bit Absolute address
                                             <| S + A
.2+| 195     .2+| `E_CALL_PLT`  .2+| Static   | _QC.EJ-Type_      .2+| 32-bit PC-relative function call (via PLT)
                                             <| S + A - P
.2+| 196-255 .2+| *Reserved*    .2+|          |                   .2+| Reserved for future use in the Qualcomm Extensions.
                                             <|
|===

==== Calculation Symbols

Calculation symbols should be interpreted exactly as they are defined in the RISC-V ELF psABI.

==== Field Symbols

NOTE: This table should be read as an addition to the "Variables used in relocation fields" table in the RISC-V ELF psABI.

.Additional variables used in relocation fields
[%autowidth]
|===
| Field         | Description

| _QC.EAI-Type_ | Specifies the immediate field in a QC.EAI-type instruction
| _QC.EB-Type_  | Specifies the immediate field used for the branch target offset in an QC.EB-type instruction
| _QC.EJ-Type_  | Specifies the immediate field used for the jump target offset in an QC.EJ-type instruction
| _QC.EI-Type_  | Specifies the immediate field in an QC.EI-type instruction
| _QC.ES-Type_  | Specifies the immediate field in an QC.ES-type instruction
|===

The new instruction types starting _QC_ are defined in he `Xqci` specification cite:[xqcispec].

=== Code Sequences

In addition to the code sequences documented in the RISC-V ELF psABI, the following sequences may also be used by a compiler following this extension, when the corresponding `Xqci` extensions have been enabled.

==== Absolute Addresses

[%unbreakable]
--

32-bit absolute addresses in position dependent code can be loaded with a `qc.e.li` instruction (part of `Xqcili`) and the corresponding relocation `R_RISCV_QC_E_32`.
This should be used in the Medium Low Code Model, when Xqcili is available.

[,asm]
----
    # Calculate Address
    qc.e.li a0, symbol+addend   # R_RISCV_VENDOR QUALCOMM
                                # R_RISCV_QC_E_32 symbol, addend
----
--

[%unbreakable]
[NOTE]
--
This `qc.e.li` instruction is only 6 bytes, compared to an `lui`/`addi` pair which can be up to 8 bytes.

The size of load or store sequences of e.g. `lui`/`lw` or `lui`/`sw` are up to 8 bytes, compared to up to 10 bytes for e.g. `qc.e.li`/`lw` or `qc.e.li`/`sw` sequences.

The overall size of the `lui`-based pairs are hard to measure, as several instructions can share the same `lui`, but when they do it is much harder to relax the sequence.

Which option of these to emit can be hard to evaluate, as it depends on the layout of the executable, whether relaxation is enabled, and whether the load or store was compressed.
--

[%unbreakable]
--
20-bit absolute addresses in position dependent code can be loaded with a `qc.li` instruction (part of `Xqcili`) and the corresponding relocation `R_RISCV_QC_ABS20_U`.

NOTE: This Relocation and its operand Specificer (`%qc.abs20`) are designed to be used in assembly, because it cannot be used in code sequences for the existing code models.

[,asm]
----
    qc.li a0, %qc.abs20(symbol+addend)  # R_RISCV_VENDOR QUALCOMM
                                        # R_RISCV_QC_ABS20_U symbol, addend
----
--


==== Procedure Calls

[%unbreakable]
--
Unconditional 48-bit call (_QC.EJ-Type_) instructions (in `Xqcilb`) have a `R_RISCV_QC_E_CALL_PLT` relocation that can represent an even signed 32-bit offset (-2GiB to +2GiB-2) from PC.

Just like `R_RISCV_CALL_PLT`, it is up to the linker to decide whether this relocation needs a PLT entry, or can directly use the procedure's address.
Just like `R_RISCV_CALL_PLT`, calling via an instruction that uses this relocation may clobber non-callee-saved registers.

[,asm]
----
    qc.e.jal symbol   # R_RISCV_VENDOR QUALCOMM
                      # R_RISCV_QC_E_CALL_PLT symbol

    qc.e.j symbol   # R_RISCV_VENDOR QUALCOMM
                    # R_RISCV_QC_E_CALL_PLT symbol
----
--

==== PC-Relative Branches

[%unbreakable]
--
Conditional 48-bit branch (_QC.EB-type_) instructions (in `Xqcibi`) have a `R_RISCV_QC_E_BRANCH` relocation that can represent an even signed 13-bit offset (-4096 to +4094) from PC.

[,asm]
----
    qc.e.beqi a0, 0xFF00, symbol+addend   # R_RISCV_VENDOR QUALCOMM
                                          # R_RISCV_QC_E_BRANCH symbol, addend
----
--

[%unbreakable]
--
Conditional branch immediate (B-type) instructions (in `Xqcibi`) use the standard `R_RISCV_BRANCH` relocation, which can represent an even signed 13-bit offset (-4096 to +4094) from PC. These use a standard relocation code, so do not need a `R_RISCV_VENDOR` relocation.

[,asm]
----
    qc.beqi a0, 0xFF, symbol+addend  # R_RISCV_BRANCH symbol, addend
----
--

=== Attributes

The RISC-V ELF psABI defines a method for providing additional information about object files that a linker or runtime loader can use to ensure the ELF files are compatible. Attributes with a tag number above 32768 are reserved for non-standard extensions.

This psABI Extension does not allocate any non-standard attribute tags.
