src/riscv-elf-psabi-quic-extensions.adoc, before:

// Copyright (c) 2024, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
= RISC-V ELF psABI - Qualcomm Extensions
:company: Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.
:url-riscv: https://riscv.org
:doctype: book
:docgroup: RISC-V Toolchain Team
:description: RISC-V ELF psABI - Qualcomm Extensions
:revdate: 2024-12-09
:revnumber: 0.1
:revremark: Development
:revinfo:
:preface-title: Preamble
:colophon:
:appendix-caption: Appendix
// https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/macros/images-directory/
:imagesdir: ../docs-resources/images
// Settings:
:experimental:
:reproducible:
//:WaveDromEditorApp: app/wavedrom-editor.app
:imagesoutdir: images
//:srcdir: src
:bibtex-file: src/psabi.bib
:bibtex-order: alphabetical
:bibtex-style: apa
:icons: font
:lang: en
:listing-caption: Listing
:sectnums:
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
:source-highlighter: pygments
ifdef::backend-pdf[]
:source-highlighter: coderay
endif::[]
:data-uri:
:hide-uri-scheme:
:stem: latexmath
:footnote:
:xrefstyle: short

[preface]
== Document Status
[WARNING]
.This document is in the link:http://riscv.org/spec-state[Development state]
====
Expect potential changes. This draft specification is likely to evolve.
Implementations based on this draft may not conform to the final version of this
specification.
====

// [preface]
// == List of figures
// list-of::image[hide_empty_section=true, enhanced_rendering=true]

[preface]
== List of tables
list-of::table[hide_empty_section=true, enhanced_rendering=true]

// [preface]
// == List of listings
// list-of::listing[hide_empty_section=true, enhanced_rendering=true]

[preface]
== Copyright and license information

Copyright 2024, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.

This specification is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License (CC-BY-4.0). The full license text is available at
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.

[preface]
include::contributors.adoc[]

include::intro.adoc[]

include::quic-extensions.adoc[]

include::relaxations.adoc[]

// The index must precede the bibliography
include::index.adoc[]

include::bibliography.adoc[]

Commit message:

Add Commentary and Clarifications
Including:
- Added Store Relaxation Examples
- Added Adjacent Instruction Restrictions
- Rename R_RISCV_QC_E_JUMP_PLT to R_RISCV_QC_E_CALL_PLT, to make it
  clear that the relocated instruction may clobber registers (e.g. in
  the PLT veneer).
- Update Spec Versions to v0.10.0

Signed-off-by: Sam Elliott <quic_aelliott@quicinc.com>

src/riscv-elf-psabi-quic-extensions.adoc, after:

// Copyright (c) 2024, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
= RISC-V ELF psABI - Qualcomm Extensions
:company: Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.
:url-riscv: https://riscv.org
:doctype: book
:docgroup: RISC-V Toolchain Team
:description: RISC-V ELF psABI - Qualcomm Extensions
:revdate: 2024-12-09
:revnumber: 0.1
:revremark: This document is in Development state.  Change should be expected.
:revinfo:
:preface-title: Preamble
:colophon:
:appendix-caption: Appendix
// https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/macros/images-directory/
:imagesdir: ../docs-resources/images
// Settings:
:experimental:
:reproducible:
//:WaveDromEditorApp: app/wavedrom-editor.app
:imagesoutdir: images
//:srcdir: src
:bibtex-file: src/psabi.bib
:bibtex-order: alphabetical
:bibtex-style: apa
:icons: font
:lang: en
:listing-caption: Listing
:sectnums:
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
:source-highlighter: pygments
ifdef::backend-pdf[]
:source-highlighter: coderay
endif::[]
:data-uri:
:hide-uri-scheme:
:stem: latexmath
:footnote:
:xrefstyle: short

[preface]
== Document Status
[WARNING]
.This document is in the link:https://lf-riscv.atlassian.net/wiki/display/HOME/Specification+States[Development state]
====
Assume everything can change. This draft specification will change before being accepted
as standard, so implementations made to this draft specification will likely not conform
to the future standard.
====

// [preface]
// == List of figures
// list-of::image[hide_empty_section=true, enhanced_rendering=true]

[preface]
== List of tables
list-of::table[hide_empty_section=true, enhanced_rendering=true]

// [preface]
// == List of listings
// list-of::listing[hide_empty_section=true, enhanced_rendering=true]

[preface]
== Copyright and license information

Copyright 2024, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.

This specification is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License (CC-BY-4.0). The full license text is available at
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.

[preface]
include::contributors.adoc[]

include::intro.adoc[]

include::quic-extensions.adoc[]

include::relaxations.adoc[]

include::commentary.adoc[]

// The index must precede the bibliography
include::index.adoc[]

include::bibliography.adoc[]
